# EARNI

## Web Application for Visualizing Stock Price Movement Relative to Earnings Report Data

Earni will be divided into a couple of subprojects:
    1. An API written in Python that can analyze financial data based on various parameters and create various visualizations
        - This project also entails retrieving data(using the SEC's EDGAR API and Yahoo Finance API), Storing it efficiently in a database(Probable PostgreSQL, still need to research options though), as well as some scripts and tools for administrating and maintaining everything
    2. A web application that allows users to search and analyze financial data as well as create custom visualizations
        - Users can choose a stock or subset of stocks(either a list of tickers, or a sector, or a whole exchange) and a time range, to choose which stocks to analyze and what date ranges to look at stock prices and earnings reports for. All analysis will be centered around earnings reports, so they will essentially be choosing which earnings reports to look at by company and date range. Stock price is only gathered for the days after each earning report, and is used to compare price changes directly after an earnings report relative to the data points in the actual earnings report.
        - Users can further filter OUT earnings reports based on criteria related to the reports themself. For example: "Select only earnings reports where EPS was at least 5% more than the expected EPS" or "Select only earnings reports where revenue increased relative to the previous earnings report", etc. Users can apply and combine as many filters as they want. There will also be filters based on the stock price or the company itself, such as "Only search companies with a market cap of 10 billion or more" or "Only search companies with a share price above $5". Ideally, I'd like to implement stock price filters that are relative to earnings dates, e.g. "Only select earnings reports in which the companies stock price decreased by 5% or more in the week leading up to the earnings report" since this kind of info should be very relevant to how the price moves AFTER the earnings report as well(e.g. filtering by companies that decreased a lot just before earnings, but then heavily beat expectations, would be interesting).
        - !!!! BONUS !!!! Allow users to create Alerts based on their filters. If the data analysis and visualization works out well, and users are able to identify useful trends - meaning they identify a set of filters that identifies a large number earnings reports where, for almost every one of them, the companies stock price increased by a large amount in the week following the report - then they can create an alert that will notify them when any company on their list files an earnings report that meets those same criteria. The EDGAR database is updated very quickly(usually within minutes of an earnings report) so it should be possible to scan all newly posted earnings reports regularly and compare them against filters/alerts setup by users.

    

